README.md, before:

# [BALTIC: the Backronymed Adaptable Lightweight Tree Import Code](https://github.com/blab/baltic/blob/master/BALTIC_treeParser.ipynb)

This [iPython notebook](https://github.com/blab/baltic/blob/master/BALTIC_treeParser.ipynb) represents a collection of classes I've written over the last few years to parse, handle, analyse and visualise phylogenetic trees. Its humble origins lie with a [short linked list script on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/280243/python-linked-list/280286#280286) and a lot of the machinery associated with it had been developed for my [2015 paper](dx.doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msu287) on reassortment patterns in human influenza B virus. I've written the code to be fairly simple and highly adaptable, especially when it comes to tree visualisation. Versions of this code have been used to make fairly sophisticated figures, such as Fig 6 from my [MERS-CoV paper](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/ve/vev023):

![](figures/mers.jpg)

and an [animation of Ebola virus spread in West Africa](https://vimeo.com/171961189) from an upcoming paper:

![](figures/ebola.jpg)

In order to correct [an article](dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa5646) that got it wrong, I've rewritten some of the code recently to make the tree parser able to deal with polytomies, as well as being able to collapse branches with low support or short branch lengths. I've also implemented the ability to traverse subtrees under the same trait, which allows for the decomposition of labelled phylogenies into subtree spectra.

In this notebook you will find several examples of how the code can be used to plot MCC trees from [my influenza B reassortment paper](dx.doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msu287), as well as ways of converting trees into abstract graphs in time and trait space. I'm perfectly happy for people to use, modify and share my code as long as it's not being sold for personal profit. I would also appreciate any form of a nod wherever you use it, be it mentioning my name or maintaining the name BALTIC.

------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright 2016 [Gytis Dudas](https://twitter.com/evogytis). Licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

Commit message:

Major overhaul of baltic organisation.

README.md, after:

[BALTIC: the Backronymed Adaptable Lightweight Tree Import Code](https://github.com/blab/baltic/blob/master/BALTIC_treeParser.ipynb)

baltic was initially developed to extract various statistics from molecular phylogenies derived from [BEAST](https://github.com/beast-dev/beast-mcmc) in a customised way. My [influenza B virus reassortment paper](dx.doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msu287) used early versions of baltic’s code to look at how the human influenza B virus segment diversity is structured according to genomic background. I’ve since split up the various bits of code into three parts:

———————

## baltic
baltic.py is the tree parser itself. It uses three main classes - node, leaf and tree to import, manipulate and plot BEAST trees with their rich variety of comments. Node and leaf classes have references to the usual set of parameters you would find in a phylogeny - index of character in string designating the branch (a unique identifier within the tree), length, height, position in time (absoluteTime), X and Y coordinates, a dictionary encoding BEAST branch comments (traits) and a reference to their parent (None for root) and a string designating their type (branchType). The node class additionally have a children attribute, which is a list of the node’s children, another list called leaves that contains tip names that descend from that node, a numChildren attribute, which is the length of the leaves list and a childHeight attribute which tracks when the last tip descending from the node existed. The leaf class has two extra attributes called name and numName. Trees drawn from the posterior distribution will usually encode tips as numbers to save space and require a translation map to convert back into actual interpretable tip names. In baltic numName will be the exact name for the tip that was used in the tree string, with functions to allow the translation of numName into name.

baltic.py evolved from a [short linked list script on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/280243/python-linked-list/280286#280286) and underwent a major overhaul in order to correct [an article](dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa5646) that was wrong. The code should be fairly legible (and commented) and highly adaptable to suit anyone’s needs.

———————

## samogitia
![](figures/coa_samogitia.jpg)

samogitia.py is the heavy-lifting, tree file-wrangling script in the collection. It’s main role is to parse BEAST tree files, use baltic to create tree data structures, which samogitia then manipulates to create BEAST-like log files that can usually be imported into [Tracer](http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/tracer/) or used in another program.

——————

## austechia
![](figures/coa_austechia.jpg)

austechia.ipynb is the fancy Jupyter notebook that takes tree files, usually MCC trees from BEAST, and plots them. It is meant to be part teaching tool to get people to think about how trees are plotted, to allow for highly customisable representations of trees (e.g. Fig 6 in my [MERS-CoV paper](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/ve/vev023)) and to improve the aesthetics situation in phylogenetics.


—————

Copyright 2016 [Gytis Dudas](https://twitter.com/evogytis). Licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).
